# schoolnurse
In the seamless provision of comprehensive health services to children and young people, the school nurse has a vital role. Growing numbers of students are joining schools that need management during the school day with chronic health conditions. For paediatricians, this policy statement defines the role of the school nurse in serving as a team member in the provision of preventive care, early issue detection, treatments, and referrals to support health and educational success. Preparation, continuing preparation, and adequate staffing levels of school nurses are essential factors for success in order to optimally care for children. To promote the working relationship between the school nurse and the medical home of the infant, suggestions are given. The National Association of School Nurses has supported this statement. 

The school nurse provides children with direct treatment. For all students and long-term supervision of students with special health care needs, the school nurse provides care for accidents and acute illness. Responsibilities include diagnosis and treatment, contact with parents, referral to doctors, and the provision or supervision of prescribed nursing care within the framework of licenced nursing practise. 

For students with chronic conditions, an individualised health care plan is developed and, where necessary, an emergency plan is developed to address possible emergency situations in the school community (eg, diabetes, asthma). This health plan is best matched with the management plan directed by the paediatrician of the child and updated periodically by close contact. 

For school nurses, <a href="https://www.eduhealthsystem.com/">Electronic Health Record </a>systems are expected to use the aggregate data to construct a structured school health database that recognises patterns in student health, defines evidence-based strategies, promotes successful models of student healthcare, and records that increase the academic performance of students. 

In or adjacent to the classroom, several schools may have a school-based health centre which may provide primary care and psychosocial services. To ensure continuity of care to reduce duplication of resources, the school nurse manages the tasks of the school health services staff with the child's primary care doctor and/or with the school-based health centre. 
